#summary A broad outline describing how to configure Rampage AI Lite.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Configuration Basics =

Rampage AI Lite configuration is split between two files: Config.lua, and the state-file. The Config.lua file holds only the most basic options for operation of Rampage AI Lite. By contrast, the state-file holds most settings and information related to the current state of the AI.

= The Config.lua File =

The options in the Config.lua file will affect all users of RAIL, regardless of character ID, or homunculus/mercenary. It is recommended to change settings in this file before the first-run of RAIL. Further information can be found on the [ConfigLuaFile The Config.lua File] wiki page.

= The State File =

The second file, called the state-file, is generated and verified by Rampage AI Lite. This file will be created in the Ragnarok Online directory _(*not* in the _USER`_`AI_ directory)_. It is separate from the rest of the RAIL files to discourage accidental modification of core RAIL files. The Rampage AI Lite state-files will be named _RAIL`_`State._xxx_.lua_, where _xxx_ indicates the type of AI: "merc" for mercenary, or "homu" for homunculus. Additionally, RAIL can be set (in the Config.lua file) to include the character ID in the state-file filename, which allows separate settings between characters.

In addition to settings for the AI, the state-file also contains information such as the owner's ID, the homunculus/mercenary's ID, the time that buffs will wear off, etc. This file is both read-from and written-to regularly, which allows interaction with GUI programs and mercenary-homunculus interaction for alchemists. Further, it allows updates to the settings without resetting the entire AI (via teleport, map-change, etc).

_Note: Changes to the settings must be indicated by use of a special option inside the state-file._

For further information on configuring the state-file, please view [DefaultStateFile a default state-file] and [StateFileIndex the state-file index].